Welcome to the Nokia Theater at LA Live.
Tonight, Access TV goes up close with
NBA legend Kobe Bryant and Emmy
award-winning host Jimmy Kimmel. All
proceeds from tonight's event support
the Kobe and Vanessa Bryant Family
Foundation and Cedar Sinai Sports
Spectacular in their efforts to
eliminate homelessness throughout Los
Angeles. Please welcome our special
guest, Mr. Kobe Bryant and our host for
the evening, Jimmy Kimmel.
Yeah. Yeah. Just we're going to get a
jib.
[Applause]
All right. It's not weird.
Well, look at this.
Thank you.
How about that? You don't even have to
play.
Welcome everyone. Thank you for coming.
This is Kobe Bryant.
He plays for the Lakers.
Well, thank you. Have a seat, Kobe.
Thank you.
You guys have a seat, too.
Well, first of all, it's a miracle.
You're walking. You're You're up on your
feet. I mean, it's incredible.
I feel I feel good. I feel good.
You uh you do feel good.
I feel I feel great actually. It's um
I've been I've been pretty fortunate
with the surgery. It's been good.
Can you hear Kobe? Okay.
Can you hear me now?
That sounds better.
I'll translate if there's any trouble. I
Well, I saw you on Instagram picking up
marbles with your toes, so that has to
be a good sign, right?
Yeah. I mean, you know what? This I'm
just going to like just sit here like
this and
I I I struggle picking up marbles with
my toes, but you know, whatever the
great Judy Cedo tells me to do, I listen
and it's going to get my foot better and
get me ready to win the sixth one. So,
well, I want to start off um by um
reading something that you wrote
right after you were injured. You went
on Facebook
and you posted a lengthy blog.
You know what this is?
Oh yeah.
You said this.
You going to read the whole thing?
I'm going to read some of it.
This is such BS. All the training and
sacrifice just flew out the window with
one step that I've done millions of
times. The frustration is unbearable.
The anger is rage. Why the hell did this
happen? Makes no damn sense. Now I'm
supposed to come back from this and be
the same player or better at 35. How in
the world am I supposed to do that? I
have no clue. Do I have the consistent
will to overcome this thing? Maybe I
should break out the rocking chair and
reminisce on the career that was. Maybe
this is how my book ends. Maybe father
time has defeated me. Then again, maybe
not. It's 3:30 a.m. My foot feels like
dead weight. My head is spinning from
the pain meds and I'm wide awake.
Forgive my venting, but what's the
purpose of social media if I won't bring
it to you real? No image. Feels good to
vent. to let it out,
to feel as if this is the worst thing
ever. Because after all the venting, the
real perspective sets in. There are far
greater issues and challenges in the
world than a torn Achilles. Stop feeling
sorry for yourself. Find the silver
lining and get to work with the same
belief, same drive, and same conviction
as ever.
One day, the beginning of a new career
journey will commence. Today is not that
day. If you see me in a fight with a
bear, pray for the bear.
I've always loved that quote. That's
mamba mentality. We don't quit. We don't
cower. We don't run. We endure and
conquer.
So,
you're kind of going back. First of all,
they must have had you on some great
drugs when you wrote that,
man. You know, that's it's uh it's that
good old Vicodin, I guess.
Vicodin. Yes. And when does anybody uh
consult you before you tweet when you're
on Vicodin?
No. No. I you know I called him uh you
know sometimes you just just let it
run things by people.
Well, I mean that that post right there
was just uh I just I couldn't I couldn't
sleep and I was up and just thinking
about everything and it just I had to
let it out.
So lucky you have Facebook to talk
instead of her in the middle of the
night.
She's you know she's heard it. She's
heard it before, man. She's heard
you. Uh, this is your 18th season. Do
you think you played too many minutes
last season?
Um, you know, I I can't say that I did.
I I think
I think you did.
Yeah. I mean, with the with an Achilles
injury, you it's just one of those freak
situations. I mean, it's tough to really
understand or know when that threshold
is or when,
you know, when enough is enough. I mean,
it's it's tough,
right? That may not have been well
probably wasn't the reason for the
injury, but you got Tim Duncan playing
10 minutes a game less than you're
playing. You're in your 18th year. Do
you think next season you will play
less? You'll be more conservative.
Well, I mean, that's the that's the
goal. You know, that's why we uh you
know, we went out, we we got a little
younger. We picked up, you know, a
couple uh a couple wing players who I
really think are going to, you know,
help us tremendously next year and Nick
Young and Wesley Johnson.
you know, I I really I really look
forward to them carrying um carrying a
significant amount of that weight and,
you know, easing the load.
Yeah, we'll see what happens when you
get on the court.
Hey, man. Listen, I you know, I I I
could sit back until June, man. Just you
know, I just want that jewelry.
You said you plan to um
you said you plan to shatter the record
for the quickest recovery time from this
injury.
Yeah.
Do you do you think you'll be playing at
the beginning of the season?
Uh I don't know if I'll be ready to open
at night. I I I really don't know. I
mean, I know I'm really really ahead of
schedule and um you know, whether I'll
be ready opening night, I don't know,
but I'm I'm planning on coming back as,
you know, as soon as possible.
Has A-Rod visited you in the hospital?
He might be able to help.
No, I haven't heard from him.
What did you do while you're laid up in
bed for such a long period of time?
Uh, actually I I watched every season of
Modern Family.
Like every season. Watched, you know, a
bunch of movies. Um, Disney movies,
kids, you know, we all just kind of laid
in the bed and just watched TV.
It was like you were at home sick from
school and mommy was taking care of you.
Exactly. You know, I was eating in the
bed and everything. So
you um you uh how do you not get fat
when you're in bed that much?
You'd have to roll me out. I'd be like
one of those guys you see on TLC.
I don't know.
I I don't know, man. I I didn't I don't
uh I'm not I'm not really a big eater. I
like sweets, though.
I see. You were uh live tweeting during
uh
Thank you.
during a Lakers uh playoff game,
and I loved it. I thought it was great,
but you said you would never do it
again.
Is was that your decision or did the
Lakers suggest that you never do it
again?
Well, and I'm I'm you know, with all due
respect, they know I'm a little too
stubborn to really tell me anything. You
know,
kind of going to do it anyway if I want
to do it.
So, do you think they are aware of that?
Um
cuz I have that same inclination. If
you're told to do something, you feel
like you have to do the opposite. It's
not even like you just feel like it's
almost as if they're taunting you. No, I
mean it wasn't wasn't really that big a
deal. I you know the uh ownership didn't
have a problem with it to be honest with
you. It was just um I thought it was
pretty damn cool. I mean I enjoyed it.
I enjoyed it too. Um I enjoyed when you
were tweeting during your 81 point game
as well. I mean that was you know to
look back at that and to give people
that are reading your Twitter account
insight into what was going through your
head at that time. Yeah, that was that
was the first time I watched the game.
That was the first time watching it.
That was the first time you ever watched
a game. See, that's a big difference
between u uh you and I is if if I were
to score even eight points in a game,
it would be on an endless loop at my
house.
But 81 points.
Yeah. I don't I don't know.
That is I mean
your grandmother was there for that
game.
She was. She was. It was her first time
ever watching me play in an NBA game.
And um
And did she think you scored 81 points
every single time?
No. Her concern was that I was too tired
after the game.
Oh, really?
She was more concerned for my for my
health.
You just got back from the Philippines,
right?
Yeah.
Did you visit Manny Pacquiao there? Um,
no, I didn't see him. But, you know,
when when we arrived, um, you know, in
our in our, you know, villa, he had his
entire staff there.
His staff, like his entire staff and the
chef and everything. They prepared like
this full on like 10 course meal. It was
incredible.
It was incredible. And, you know, I sat
there and stuffed my face. I I I said I
was going to start my diet, but then I
decided to start.
So, Manny Pacquiao sent you room service
essentially.
Yeah. Yeah, with the shot. I mean, it
was like he set up the whole room. I
mean, he just went above and beyond,
man.
You stopped there on the way back from
China.
Yeah.
You go to China every year now.
You're very popular in China.
Why are you so popular in China?
Uh, I don't know. I mean, I I've been
going to China for years now. I started
going out in like 1998 doing camps and
clinics and stuff like that. And I don't
know. We just
There's a statue of you. I believe we
have a picture of the statue. um in
China.
Uhoh.
And um we're going to bring it up
now. That's that's uh
[Applause]
for some reason they they put you in
Urkl shorts.
Uh
that's got to be strange to know that in
a foreign country, a place where you
don't speak the language at all, they've
erected a statue of you.
Yeah. I mean, especially I I didn't even
I didn't even know it.
Yeah.
Um, we uh we actually have a clip that I
would like to show. Um, I don't know if
if you've seen this. You probably
haven't because this aired in the United
States while you're in China. And this
is how beloved Kobe Bryant is in his
native land of China.
Kobe Bryant.
KBY on the second stop of his annual
summer trip to China. About 25,000
screaming fans climbing trees and
jamming the streets outside of a
sporting goods store.
[Applause]
[Music]
What did you do to him?
I don't know. You have um you have the
number one selling jersey in China. And
I think that's particularly significant
because your jersey outs sells Yao
Ming's jersey.
And Yao Ming, I don't know if people are
aware of this, is Chinese. He's actually
from China,
right?
I I don't know what to say, man. It's
just, you know, I have a good time. We
go out there and they're really
passionate about the game. I I don't I
don't know.
They must love the game. By the way, the
remainder of tonight's presentation will
be conducted in Italian.
Uh
Bravo. See,
[Applause]
do you understand what I said?
Yeah. Yeah. It was a poor rendition of
Italian, but I got it though.
That makes one of us.
I got it.
You uh you spent a lot of your childhood
in Italy.
Yeah.
English is not your first language,
right?
No. No. It's uh actually I'm still an
absolute horrendous speller. a bad
speller. You think that is you attribute
that to learning Italian?
That mean that's my excuse.
Well, your English is very good. I
understand you perfectly.
Thank you.
You became a Lakers fan living in Italy.
Yeah.
Did they show Lakers games in Italy?
Yeah. So, um, at the time my
grandfather, uh, used to send me tapes
of Laker games cuz back then, you know,
basketball wasn't as global as it is
now. So, he used to send me tapes. I
used to sit um you know in the living
room and watch Magic and Byron and
Worthy and Cap and you know the whole
crew and I just absolutely fell in love
with the Lakers.
Magic Johnson was your favorite player.
Yeah.
Magic Johnson said
and I think this is this has got to be
as good as it gets. Magic Johnson said
you're the greatest Laker ever.
No. What do you um
you know um
it's I can't I grew up watching him so I
learned from him. See what I mean? So
the respect goes above and beyond you
know I can't I will never accept that
because everything that I have I learn
from you know great such as such as
himself. So um you know it's just uh I
had a chance to go to the Dodger game
recently and it's
and uh you know I sat with him and that
that was really the first time in my 17
year NBA career that we had a chance to
sit and talk and you know we just shared
old stories and he talked about
you never spent time with him
no I never had a chance to sit down and
talk like that last year last year was
the first time I ever spoke to Larry
Bird I never even met him which is
strange but
how is that possible
we never never crossed paths just never
cross
you both worked for the Lakers
Um, when what was it like when your
family moved from Italy to Philadelphia?
I mean, was that uh
It was uh it was it was different. It
was an adjustment.
You had to learn to speak English like
everyone did as well as everyone did.
Yeah. Well, you had the the kind of um
some of the insecurities that come along
with not being able to speak the
language, you know what I mean? So, it
was like I I learned
Thank you. Love you too. Uh
knowing how to speak English but not
understanding kind of the slang and
the slang. Yeah. The the uh yeah the
kind of subtleties and the intricacies.
So you know playing basketball kind of
helped bridge that gap.
Did playing basketball uh did that help
you be accepted socially by the other
kids and that sort of thing?
Well, I mean a little bit. I mean I
there was there was one kid um it's
petty I know but whatever. His name is
Victor. And I remember Victor. His name
was Victor.
Little bastard.
Whatever. And he he was he was giving me
a hard time about being this foreign
kid. And your dad's a NBA player and you
think you're good, but I'm blah blah
blah blah blah blah blah.
All right. So, we we played we played a
one-on-one game and it was like I swear
it was like a I don't know. It was like
one of those like movie scenes. We're
like in a knife fight or something. It's
like everybody standing around watching.
Everybody standing around watching. and
I just devoured the poor kid and
kind of, you know,
I'm enjoying rubbing it in a little bit
right now.
So, Victor was not the Victor.
Yeah, Victor had a tough day
and he had to change his name to loser
sadly.
And then you uh Yeah. Well, and then you
came to uh California,
much like the Fresh Prince of Belair
from Philadelphia.
Um, you said in the past that if you'd
gone to college, you would have gone to
Duke.
Mhm.
Are they the ones that offer you the
most money?
Hey, you know, um, no. Uh, but Coach K,
I I loved Coach K. Coach K was
phenomenal. Um, but I I I I got to say,
you know, the truth has to come out that
I I love Duke. Um Dean Smith sent me a
letter and actually said that he was
going to stop recruiting me because he
believed that I was going to go pro. But
if I had to make a decision, I I
probably would have wind up going to
Carolina just cuz
Really?
Yeah. Because because of the
competition. So the year before u my
senior before I graduated, Vince Carter
went to Carolina and the year before he
was the best guard in the country. So,
I'm looking I'm saying, "Yo, I want to
play against him every single day
because I I want to get better. I want
to measure myself against these guys,
you know? I want to measure myself
against uh competing against a Vince
Carter, um, you know, Phelps, Rashid
Wallace every day. Um, that's something
that I was really looking forward to
doing,
wearing the same uniform that Michael
Jordan wore.
Yeah, no pressure there.
You um, who else tried to recruit you
besides Duke and North Carolina?"
Uh, Kansas was was was a big one. Um,
the first letter I ever received, first
college letter I ever received was from
West Point. Um,
did you consider that at all?
Not really.
Uh, I I was just excited to get a
letter. That was pretty cool.
Do you feel like you missed out on
anything uh by not going to college? The
wet t-shirt contest, the spring break,
and
Yeah, I mean, you know, you miss out on
that stuff, but that's the sacrifice
that you that you make. I mean, I I I I
You go to college, the way I looked at
it, you go to college, you get a job,
and I have a job sitting right here for
me, that's um that's that's challenging.
You get to compete against the best.
And I just I couldn't pass on that.
Do you tell young people not to go to
college?
Uh you know, I I tell them I tell them
to follow their dreams. That's what I
tell them.
Do you give advice? Are you uh the kind
of guy that gives advice to people?
I'm not I'm not really the the kind of
the patient type to really sit down and
give advice.
Mhm.
It's more like
I've heard that about you. I've heard
that about you.
You want to do something, do it.
You give it in short bursts.
Yeah.
I have a photograph I'd like to share.
It's a shocking photograph. I think it's
going to horrify some people in this
room, but uh let's put that up on the
screen if we could. This is um
this is something that
would probably have been better
destroyed.
No, listen. I first of all, I I hated
the Celtics just as much as everybody
here. So, you know, Dennis Johnson,
Dennis Johnson, um, you know, may he
rest in peace, Dennis Johnson,
um, when I saw him and he was going to
be a part of the workout, it I I wanted
to just annihilate him. It was just like
Dennis Johnson from the Celtics, you
know, I remember what you did to Cool. I
remember what you did to Magic, the
little elbows, and all this other stuff.
I'm giving it to you right back right
now. I don't care how old you are,
you're going to get it right now. And
so, you know, I I had actually I wound
up having a good time working out for
them. Um, I actually had a really good
and fun workout with the Clippers.
Um,
I did
I did I had a really good workout with
the Clippers and then they they they
told me this is probably too much
information, but nobody.
So I I had a really good workout with
the Clippers and they told me they said,
"You know, this is the best workout we
ever seen." So I'm like, "Oh man, I'm
excited." I'm like, "I'm going to come
to LA." I said, "All right, so you want
to draft me?" No,
no, no. That's what makes them the
Clippers.
Well, I asked him why. I said I asked
him. I said, "Listen,
I for me as as a as a as a kid in
Philadelphia, you've had like the the
horrible winters, you know, I'm excited
to come out to LA, palm trees and all
that, right?"
So, I asked them why wouldn't they draft
me? They said, "Well, we want to turn
things around um with our organization,
and we felt like we felt like if we
drafted the 17-year-old kid, then the
city of Los Angeles wouldn't take us
seriously." And so, they said, "We can't
draft you."
They always make the best decisions.
Oh, man. Dude, that was like
that was so much motivation. I think
what uh 2004 was it that you were
considering going to the Clippers? Were
you really considering going to the
Clippers?
Yeah,
you were.
Yeah.
Even with that stupid uniform they wear,
you were going to put that on?
Yeah,
I was.
Isn't that like signing an endorsement
deal with RC Cola? No,
[Applause]
I mean it was a it was a really it was
really really um tough because it was a
it was a tough period where you know
Shaq had demanded a trade. Well, he just
prior to him demanding a trade and he
and I just weren't going to play
together anymore. It was just the the
challenge was thrown down. I had to
prove that I could win without him. And
um you know some something had to give
and so I started looking at other teams
as being a free agent. Um but the purple
and gold is you know has always been in
my heart. So it was very tough for me to
have to to have to look at that you know
look at that option. Um I'm fortunate
you know fortunate for
you made the right decision.
Well I mean it was actually was Dr.
Jerry Bus man. He he he had the vision.
He had the confidence. He had the
you know the belief in me to uh to
entrust his organization. Um you know
with this young
Why does everybody love Dr. Bus so much?
Every player you talk to says the same
thing that the reason I stayed is
because of Dr. Bus and and when it comes
down to it, the guy that comes in and
closes the deal is Jerry Bus.
Well, I mean he was very uh yeah, he's
Dr. Jay Bus, man, he was very um he knew
exactly what his vision was. He had a
very clear plan. When you sit down and
you talk to him, he was very patient. Um
he was very understanding. Um and like I
said, he communicated clearly. And um
for me, he he allowed me room to grow as
a person. You know, when I first came
here, I was, you know, 17 years old. I'm
I'll be uh what be 35, I think. I don't
know. 35, 36. I lose count after a
while. Um, and he allowed me to grow and
mature.
You like Jerry's in general. Jerry West
also someone you were close to.
Took a chance on a uh
a teenage a teenager.
Yeah.
[Applause]
17 years old. You do you remember, by
the way, you were drafted what the 13th?
Is that that correct?
13th pick. Yeah. Do you know uh who was
drafted ahead of you?
No.
I suspect that you have the list of
names in your head in order.
Maybe a little bit.
Do you?
You want me to go through it?
Sure.
Alan Iverson, Marcus Cami, Sharief Abdul
Raheem, Stefan Marberry, Ray Allen,
Antoine Walker, Lorenzan Wright, Carrie
KDles, Samaki Walker, Eric Dampier, Todd
Fuller, Vitali Bodapeno,
[Applause]
then you
you got drafted behind Vitali.
I know. I know.
Should never get drafted behind a Vitali
just in general. I think the pick the
pick after me was it I think it was
Steve Nash, wasn't it?
Uh I stopped at 13.
Yeah, I think it was Steve. I think it
was Steve Nash. I mean, it was uh but we
it was a
I like the idea that you you're acting
like you don't know if it was Steve when
I know you probably remind him of this
every day.
What's up 14?
[Applause]
Why didn't you want to play in
Charlotte?
um it wasn't much of my um choice or
option. You know, I was actually told
that, you know, um they really couldn't
have used me in Charlotte cuz at the
time they had, you know, they had a lot
of guards there already and they were
pretty they were doing all right and
they didn't honestly they didn't they
didn't want me. They wanted to trade me.
So that's
another great decision.
What was it like to be a teenager with a
lot of money?
Uh, it was it was cool.
Do you remember your first big
expenditures?
No, not really. I I'm not really a big
um I wasn't a big like, you know, I got
to get this car or whatever. Um, I was
just all about the game. The game just
completely consumed me. That's all.
That's that was my focus 100% of the
time. Is it true that when you're in
high school, you would show up for
practice at 5:00 a.m. and not leave
until 7:00 p.m.?
Yeah.
Do you think that's because you love
basketball or because you're crazy?
Both.
A little bit of both.
You you joined the Lakers the same year
as Shaq. Do you remember the first time
you met him?
Uh, I think the fir What did we do the
first time? I think we went out to
dinner at Jerry's Deli in Beverly Hills.
How much did he eat?
And I I thought it was the coolest thing
in the world that he had a cell phone
that was like this big. And it was like
Shaq said that you would he would
sometimes see you practicing uh without
a ball like that crazy guy in Above the
Rim.
Who taught you to practice without a
ball?
Dude, you can't listen to half the hell
that Shaq says, man.
[Applause]
I I always I always practice with a
ball. I love shooting too much. Of
course I had a ball. Not going to not
doing that.
[Applause]
You and you and Shaquille against Jordan
and Pippen. Two on two.
Oh, we would win just cuz.
And no free throws.
No, no, no, no, no. We No, we would win
that. I mean, just cuz you know, Shaq,
you know, we I I joke around. I like
needling Shaq a lot because it's just
fun to do that. But um the guy was an
absolute force, man. Like the stretch
that from 2000 to 2003 this guy was
doing is something that you know you you
haven't seen in the history of the game.
I mean NBA finals averaging 40 and 15. I
mean it was like he was doing he was
doing some pretty supernatural stuff
man. And so that matchup just wouldn't
just wouldn't work out just because of
him. You and Shaq won three titles
together. Which was your favorite of
those?
Well, yeah. Um,
number two.
Yeah, it's got to be It's got to be
number two. It's got to be number two.
Um,
it still eats a little bit at all of us.
I'm sure Robert, you know, Robert's in
here somewhere. It probably still eats
away at him a little bit, too, because
we should have went undefeated in the
playoffs that year. Should have went
undefeated. And it's it bothers us. It
still bothers us to this day that we let
that game one drop.
That is funny. You won and you're still
upset.
Listen, man. You You know, Yeah.
We already established I'm a little off.
Yeah. Little off.
You went to uh Michael Jack Michael
Jordan's Michael Jackson. Um
you went to the Neverland Ranch
recently. No, you um
you were at Michael Jordan's 50th
birthday party. No.
Did you bring him a gift?
No.
There's nothing you can give him.
No. No. What I'm going to give him?
Um, what's your relationship like with
Michael?
It's fantastic. I mean, it's u, you
know, a big brother type of
relationship.
Is he Does he Does he give you advice?
Yeah, he does actually. Yeah.
Good advice.
Great advice. I I'll never I'll never
ever well I'll never ever ever um say
that. I mean I him and Magic and those
guys and you know Michael in particular
has really given me phenomenal advice
and how to take a team uh particularly
with the personalities that that we have
and how to better communicate with your
teammates, how to better elevate your
teammates.
What player in your career did you learn
the most from?
Oh, Michael. Michael, for sure.
Even though you never played together.
For sure.
Wow.
Who's the toughest guy you ever played
against?
Toughest guy I ever played against.
Depends. It It's I can go by I can go by
Aerys actually. So,
so uh there's a there's a stretch there.
I didn't ask you guys. I asked him.
[Applause]
There there was a stretch where uh Allan
Iverson was just really I mean he was
he was a load to deal with man. He was
really really tough. And there was a
game where he dropped 44 on me in
Philadelphia. There was a game in New
Jersey where Malberry dropped 50 on me.
There's a game where Arenas had 60.
Uh
Carmelo Anthony is always tough for me
to deal with. You know, Durant's always
tough uh to deal with. Um so I mean
there's there's a lot of guys, but the
guy that always gave me the most
problems actually was Tracy McGrady.
Tracy McGrady.
Yeah. Yeah. Tracy,
Tracy McGrady with his, you know, he he
had all the skills and all the
athleticism. Um but he was 69 and he was
really really tough to figure out. We
are we're going to take a quick break
here, but I have a lot to ask you. Um,
we're here tonight for a good cause,
Kobe and Vanessa's Foundation to End
Homelessness. And u, thank you all for
coming. We'll be right back with Kobe
Bryant up close.
Well, we are here at the Nokia Theater.
Uh we've got a full house on hand for
Kobe Bryant up close. We're back on the
air, everybody.
So, um again, this is this whole event
is here is put together because um of
your efforts against you. You want to
kill homelessness. Yes.
Yes. And um and thanks to everyone for
being here. Um, and I know we are are
here tonight to try to end homelessness,
but if there's only one to be only one
homeless person in the world, um, would
you be happy if that was Dwight Howard?
[Applause]
[Music]
I'll take that as a yes.
He's a Dwight. Dwight's a great kid,
man. No, Dwine is not a great crime.
I'll speak for I'll speak on your
behalf.
Listen, I one thing you guys know about
me is I have absolutely no filter and I
have no problem saying what the hell I
feel. So, he's actually a good kid. He's
a good kid. You know, we we we have
different perspectives on what it takes
to win and what it takes to be
successful. And because of that, we
obviously had times we didn't see eye to
eye, but you know, it is what it is.
You were part of a a group of people
that the Lakers put together, assembled
to come in and to talk to Dwight to try
to convince him to stay in Los Angeles.
But, you know, knowing you, I I wonder
at that point, knowing you have to
convince someone to stay and play with
you,
do you write them off at that point? I
mean, at that point, do you go, "Hey, I
don't want this guy on my team if I have
to convince him to be here."
You know, it's it wasn't it's not about
it wasn't about me. It was about the
organization. It's about the
organization. It's about, you know,
everything that they've done for me
throughout my career. And it's about me
trying to help them out in any way I can
to set them up for the future and for
for when I retire. Weren't about me.
When you got injured, Dwight said, and
this is a quote, "Now with Kobe out, I
understand that I have to do more and be
more for this team. This is a great
opportunity for me. This is a great
opportunity. So, there's no need to get
down about it. This is a great
opportunity for us to do something
special and make believers out of
everybody." He saw your injury as a
great opportunity. Did that
Did that bother you at the time?
No,
it didn't.
No, it didn't. You know, it's it's um I
understand um that philosophy and you're
trying to, you know, stay positive and
motivate the guys. I I I have absolutely
no problems with that.
You because you at one time maybe felt
like people said, "Oh, you only win
because Shaq is your teammate." And then
that drove you to
I never I didn't I didn't I never cared
about when other people said that. It
never bothered me that people said,
"Well, you only win championships
because you're playing with Shaq." It
bothered me when he said it. You
understand? So when he said it, I said,
"Okay, you know what? That's it." Cuz
you know what time it is.
But you told us yourself
that you shouldn't listen to what Shaq
says.
You said you wanted to be a Laker for
life, but the Lakers,
well, we all know the situation. They
might be trying to clear cap space to
potentially lure someone like LeBron
andor Carmelo Anthony.
Are you certain that you will be a Laker
for life?
Yeah.
Phil, um
Phil Jackson,
another guy you you've had a kind of an
up and down relationship with and I
think it's up now, right? I love Phil.
Phil said wrote that you were um he said
that your philosophy was give me the
damn ball, but at a certain point you
that changed. You started taking your
teammates to dinner. You started
socializing with them and treating them
like partners. Was was that a conscious
decision you made or did that just
happen?
It was it was it was part of the
evolution of understanding
um you know what it takes to enhance the
group around you. You know, I was a
person that was completely consumed with
my craft. And, you know, I got to a
point in my career where I had to kind
of take a step back and start looking
outwardly and not looking, you know,
internally of how to make improvements,
but start looking at others and saying,
"Okay, how can I make him better? How
can I improve him? What's he going
through, etc., etc." And that, you know,
that that came from, you know, Phil's
direction.
And you do you feel like your your
philosophy as a leader has changed
significantly over the years?
Um yeah, it has actually. I you know my
demeanor and my temper probably
calmed down maybe a little bit but just
kind of how I view things and how I
perceive things are it's different. It's
different. I go into games now um you
know when I made that that adjustment
looking at um you know what are my guys
going through you know who's struggling
what can I do to help and sometimes that
might take me out of rhythm of the game
but that's fine because I you know
that's I rather me have to try to go
through that uphill struggle um as
opposed to my teammates having to do it.
Will you miss Metal World Peace
tremendously?
you.
I really like him. I mean, not He's
still around, I guess, but What's the
funniest thing you ever saw him do?
Uh, what's the funniest thing I ever
seen Meta do?
He's done anything like funny. I mean,
he's done some pretty weird
seems to do some pretty weird stuff. Uh,
didn't you didn't you I I seem to recall
you telling me you met him in the
shower.
Well, that's kind of what I was alluding
to.
Oh, I see.
You know, it was after we we got beat by
the Celtics uh 2008 in the finals and I
you know, I'm in the shower and I'm I'm
pissed beyond belief and I'm just
standing there. I'm like in the shower
for like an hour
and I just hear yo
yo.
I turn around and I'm standing in the
shower and he's standing there and he
says, "This ain't going to happen no
more. I'm going to come and I'm going to
help you and we're going to win and this
is not going to happen. I'm going to
have your back." I was like,
you know,
like, damn, man. We could like hug it
out right now, but not really.
Yeah.
You know,
who is the funniest guy you ever played
with?
Uh, Shaq. Shaq and Gary Payeyton. By
far.
By far.
Who's the smelliest player you ever
played with?
Uh, Brian Grant because of his dreads.
The dreads. If you could pick one uh one
player to join you on the Lakers,
anybody, who would you pick?
Oh, I I I'd take Derek Fischer back.
Derek,
that's that's my guy, man. That's like,
you know,
we came in this thing together, you
know, we we we won five titles together.
I mean, that's like,
even though he's 70 years old,
man, I'm 65.
Do you think Chris Paul should be a
Laker right now?
Legally speaking, yeah, he should be.
Yeah.
David Stern speaking? No.
He's going to love that one.
He's going I I thought he actually I
thought it was I you know I I was
working out. I was lifting weights
getting ready and you know Chris called
me and told me he was coming you know
and said it was a done deal and I was
like all right well cool. You know I was
um it was kind of mixed reactions cuz
you're losing teammates you know Py and
Lamar you know so it's tough. Um then he
calls me back like 30 minutes later and
said, "Man, you won't believe it." I
said, "What?" David Stern killed the
deal, man. That's some bull,
you know. And then it kind of went from
there. And then he ended up in LA
anyway. So yeah, close, but no cigar, I
guess.
Um on a on a scale of 1 to 10, how much
does it bother you when the Lakers try
to trade Palas?
[Applause]
It seems like it bothers you a lot.
It does.
It does. It um
Yeah, it's uh
let me see how I can how can I put this.
So that we we had a stretch where we won
championships with, you know, pal
anchoring
the offense for us, you know. Then we
went through a stretch where, you know,
we had Andrew developing. So we try to
work him into things.
We had Dwight come try to work him into
things.
And through that process,
through that process, everybody forgot
how we won in the first place.
So, right, you know, so Pal's in a tough
spot because everybody's asking him and
wanting to see more from him, but he's
not getting the same opportunities that
he was getting before. So, you know,
can't have it both ways, man.
Yeah. Well, that makes sense. Yeah. And
but he's still with you and that's good.
Yeah.
You um what's your favorite basketball
movie?
Uh The Fish That Save Pittsburgh.
The Fish That Save Pittsburgh.
Nobody probably know that movie is a
cult classic, man.
You guys got to get up on that. You
know, he's from Pittsburgh.
Dr. J with the afro. You know what I'm
talking about.
Yeah. And then you know the conventional
ones you know
are you planning to write a book anytime
soon?
I might as well. Everybody else write
books about me. Damn.
Might as well. White run by myself.
I swear I keep telling Phil Phil. You
might have to cut me in on a royalty or
something.
Hey, really? Yeah.
Jesus Christ, man.
And do you know what it will be called?
Have you thought about the title of the
book?
I might as well just call it Phil.
Just call it Phil.
you uh you turn 35 next week. You've
accomplished a lot obviously.
What are you most proud of? What what uh
that you've accomplished?
It's it's it's it's tough. It's been a
um it's been a um long career, you know,
in 17 years. It's hard to to pinpoint in
my professional career the things that
I'm most proud of. Um I think it's fun.
No, it's definitely not over. But it's
fun to kind of challenge
um you know, from a 17-year-old kid and
kind of challenge um what's normal or
what the system was. You know, that
that's that was pretty cool.
You uh need less than 7,000 points to
break Kareem's all-time scoring record.
Is that important to you?
No, you know, it's never I've never
given that thought. It was never
something that um you know, was a goal
of mine growing up. It's not a goal now.
I I you know, people don't really
understand how obsessed I am with
winning. It's not I don't care about
anything else on the basketball court
but winning.
Well, that's why I wonder is everyone
knows how competitive you are. What how
will you handle it when you retire? I
mean, you're going to need serious
therapy.
Do you even have hobbies?
Sure. Sure. Sure. No. Coach, you picture
me coaching? My god. No.
Is that something you'd be interested in
coaching?
No. No. No.
What about owning a team?
Um, if if if the Lakers want to
sell you the team,
you know, if they if they if they if
they want to break me off a little
something something, I I I you know,
I'll definitely jump at that.
Do you think the L Lakers will uh make
the playoffs this year?
No, I I I I I think we'll finish 12th.
All right.
We have some questions from the
audience. The first one comes from, uh,
Jerry Trevino.
Jerry, where are you, Jerry?
Jerry, uh, go ahead and ask your
question. Look at how muscular Jerry is.
Why? My goodness.
When you ask Marine, that's why. No. Um,
Mr. 81, my question to you is, of all
your nicknames, which one is your
favorite and why?
It's like Mamba, Veno,
Um, I like right now I I like I like
Veno right now.
You like Veno right now?
I like Veno.
Vo is a great nickname.
Yeah, Black Mama's like, you know, that
I I I enjoy that obviously and that's
that's the that's the alter ego
got turn into when I step on the court.
Next question is from Mariela Maron.
Mariel, how are you?
Good, thank you.
Just wanted to start off by saying me
and my cousin love you very much
and thank you Vanessa for upgrading our
seats. Um, my question to you is, what
do you think about ESPN stating that the
Lakers are going to be in 12th place on
the Western Conference this season?
Whoa. Well, I mean, you know, ESPN gets
stuff wrong all the time. I mean, it's,
you know, so, but I I I I think it's
interesting. I use it as motivation. I
use it as fuel. I'm sure we all do on a
team. It's it's it's you know last year
they they picked us to be the favorites
and they were wrong about that. So maybe
they're wrong about the 12.
Tracy, you have a question.
Hi Kobe. Whenever I think I can't
achieve a goal, I think WW KD. What
would Kobe do?
[Applause]
Thank you.
So my question is um could you please
share your secret? You have the most
amazing ability to rise up quickly and
bounce back from any emotional or
psychological adversity. You just bounce
back right away. The rest of us would
crumble and simultaneously you stay in
the moment all the time. How
can I ask really quickly?
Why do you Why do you want to know this?
Are you having emotional problems?
Yes.
Yeah. Kobe, help her, please.
I think the the the um
the the there's no real there's no real
trick to it. It's all really just to me
it's it's it's u it seems very simple
because you know when you you have a
situation and you're struggling or
you're going through something and then
you step on a basketball court or you're
you're faced with that you know fight or
flight option you you have a choice to
make and to me it's it's a very easy
choice. I'm not I'm not going to fold.
I'm not going to you know crawl up in
the ball. I'm not I'm just not going to
do that. So, you know, you you you can
either let this situation continue to
affect you or you can win at something.
So, if you're struggling in this area,
you don't want to struggle in this area
too, you know. So, you want to, you
know, try to compartmentalize your
emotions and focus on what you're doing
at that moment in time. And u you'll
find that when you do that, it it it it
brings peace to other aspects of your
life as well.
[Music]
[Applause]
We have uh
agreed. We have um Hussein. Hussein, is
that your name?
Yeah.
It's not Saddam Hussein.
Why is Hussein getting booed?
Yeah,
I think he has his arms crossed. I think
he has a Dwight Howard jersey.
Hussein, why are you getting booed?
Oh.
He did exit out.
He got he got he got that on sale.
Yeah, that's a that should be a refund
item at the Lakers store.
That was 90% off.
What is a What is your question?
What's up, Kobe? What's up, Jimmy? I was
just wondering who's the next Kobe
Bryant.
Who's the next Kobe Bryant? Um,
is there a is there a young player you
have your eye on?
The Well, there's several. I mean, the
the problem is that you know, we the
guys that I'm I'm facing now all grew up
watching me, so they all have the same
attitude and temperament and you know,
so it's uh but the guys that I really
enjoy uh I really enjoy Westbrook. I
really enjoy James Harden
and uh and Kyrie Irving. Kyrie Irving,
man, this guy
you know, but they all they all have
that that gene, you know, they're all
extremely ultra competitive and stubborn
and um Nick Young also I Nick Young's
actually giving me some pretty big
numbers in the past. It's like every
time I was guarding this guy, guy would
miss.
Have you ever wound up playing against
somebody that at one time was a kid in
one of your camps?
No. Well, I played against Westbrook
when he was a senior in high school.
Oh, okay.
And I remember thinking this this kid, I
mean, he wasn't scared at all. I mean,
he was like getting after it, you know,
the same wrestler that you see now. I
mean, he was the same way back then.
And, um, you can see the, you know, see
the potential.
Uh, we have a question here from this
gentleman. His name is Mark.
Hey, Kobe. What's up? Thanks for doing
this, man. I'm asking this question for
my son Richie who's sick at home.
Couldn't make it tonight. If you had to
win one game to save your life and you
could pick any five players all time,
whoever be on that team. Could include
you, couldn't include anybody. Who would
you pick?
Oh. Um,
well, it seems like you should be on the
team.
He really has no role in this.
No, I take I'll take I'll take myself
out of it. I I I'd pick uh Magic,
Michael,
um Bird, Russell, and Kareem.
Wow.
So,
we have uh another question from uh the
audience.
Yes. Um
Yes. What is What is your name, young
man?
My name's Terrell.
Terrell.
Yes. You have a question for Mr. Brian
Kobe? I I have two I have two questions.
Obviously
with the injury that you've sustained,
undoubtedly one of the most difficult to
come back from. Can you share with the
audience and the million peoples that
are watching today
how cutting edge technology and science
has played a big part in your recovery?
Obviously, you're well ahead of of of
what you're doing right now. So, can you
just share with the the audience what
that has done for you and what you're
going through right now? I think Terl's
looking for a doctor's appointment.
Well, you know, we we we have we
actually there is a a neuromuscular
therapist um that we share. This guy is
like one of those um genius kind of
guys, man, that just knows the human
anatomy inside and out. His name is
Baron Bados. And
um I I've been working with him for
years. And um but yeah, I mean the the
procedure was I was very fortunate. We
went and did the surgery the next day
instead of waiting and letting the scar
tissue develop and um we're very
aggressive with the therapy. Um you know
um
3 weeks maybe after the surgery we got
right to it. So um that mean that's
that's helped a lot. And and Jimmy just
to let you know
with this type of technology and
research especially obviously you think
about stem cell research uh regenine uh
cryotherapy these are a lot of things
that a lot of people don't know these
are not peeds by the way these are not
performance-enhancing drugs um these are
things that actually to allow guys to
get back to their perfected craft on the
field on the court in a faster manner
than just regular ice and stem that you
know traditionally you know practice
throughout a lot of the colleges uh high
schools and things of that nature. So
like you said we share a mutual friend
in Baron Beethos and so this is some of
the things like I came back from an ACL
injury obviously getting back on the
field running in like six and a half
seven months. These are some of the
things that now a lot of athletes are
flying across the country to to get
those treatments. But see, you know what
though? That's But that's But that's
interesting because
the grand jury to I don't
No, you know, it's it's it's interesting
because because he he's touching on
something that
it might not be a, you know, a sexy
topic for everybody here to listen to.
That's a critical part because you guys
want to win a six championship. You got
to understand that the recovery things
that I do, this stuff, I mean, it's
cutting edge. I mean, it's it's you have
to be obsessive about the process, you
know? You have to be at it all the time.
I mean, he he came back from a hell of a
ankle injury for my dear and beloved
Eagles in the Super Bowl and gave it a
great effort. And you know, but it's
it's it's it's the the the recovery
component is something that it's it's
beyond important for for us athletes.
For me in particular,
yeah, thank you. We only have
I have I have another question, J.
Well, we only have we only have 40
seconds left.
Okay. My next question is, how is
Vanessa and the kids?
Oh, they're good. Good. V right there.
V's here chilling and uh our kids are
good and uh you know they're playing
sports and insanely insanely competitive
and uh but we're we're doing Kobe.
I'm sure they're keeping
Thank you for doing this. I I think we I
I enjoyed talking to you. I hope you
guys enjoyed it. I hope that um
Kobe and Vanessa Bryant Family
Foundation uh is a great charity and
thank you all for contributing to it and
thanks to all the sponsors and thank you
Kobe Bryant to everybody. We'll
[Applause]
wait. Thank you.
[Music]
Hey,
hey, hey.
[Music]
Heat.